# What Happens When You Type https://www.google.com in Your Browser and Press Enter
Have you ever wondered what happens behind the scenes when you type a URL into your browser and hit Enter? This seemingly simple action triggers a complex series of events that involve multiple systems and protocols working together to deliver the webpage you requested. In this blog post, we will explore the journey of your request through DNS, TCP/IP, firewalls, HTTPS/SSL, load balancers, web servers, application servers, and databases.

## 1. DNS Request
The first step in this process is the DNS (Domain Name System) request. DNS is like the phonebook of the internet. It translates human-readable domain names (like www.google.com) into IP addresses that computers use to identify each other on the network.

When you enter https://www.google.com in your browser, the browser checks its cache to see if it has recently looked up this domain. If not, it sends a DNS request to a DNS server to get the IP address for www.google.com. This DNS server may need to query other DNS servers if it doesn't have the information cached. Eventually, the IP address of Google's server is returned to your browser.

## 2. TCP/IP
With the IP address in hand, your browser initiates a TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) connection to the server. TCP is responsible for establishing a reliable connection between your computer and the server. This involves a process called the TCP handshake, which consists of three steps:

SYN: Your browser sends a SYN (synchronize) packet to the server to establish a connection.
SYN-ACK: The server responds with a SYN-ACK (synchronize-acknowledge) packet.
ACK: Your browser sends an ACK (acknowledge) packet back to the server, and the connection is established.

## 3. Firewall
As the request travels from your computer to Google's server, it may pass through several firewalls. Firewalls are security devices that monitor and control incoming and outgoing network traffic. They act as barriers between trusted and untrusted networks and can block or allow traffic based on predefined security rules.

## 4. HTTPS/SSL
Since the URL you entered starts with https, the communication between your browser and Google's server is encrypted using HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure). HTTPS uses SSL/TLS (Secure Sockets Layer/Transport Layer Security) to encrypt data. This ensures that any data transferred between your browser and the server is secure and cannot be intercepted by third parties.

When the connection is established, your browser and the server perform an SSL/TLS handshake, which involves:

- Negotiating the SSL/TLS version and cipher suite to use.
- Exchanging and verifying digital certificates.
- Generating and sharing session keys for encryption.

## 5. Load Balancer
Google's infrastructure includes multiple servers to handle the vast amount of traffic they receive. A load balancer is used to distribute incoming requests across these servers to ensure no single server becomes overwhelmed. The load balancer forwards your request to one of the available servers based on various factors like server load, geographic location, and server availability.

## 6. Web Server
The web server is responsible for handling HTTP requests from clients (your browser). When the load balancer forwards your request to a web server, the web server processes the request and determines how to respond. In the case of a static webpage, the web server might simply return the requested HTML file. However, for dynamic content, the web server may need to interact with an application server.

## 7. Application Server
The application server hosts the business logic of the application. It processes requests that require server-side operations, such as querying a database or processing user input. When the web server forwards a request to the application server, the application server executes the necessary logic to generate a response. This might involve running scripts, querying databases, or performing calculations.

## 8. Database
In many cases, the application server needs to retrieve or store data in a database. Databases are organized collections of data that can be accessed and managed by the application server. The application server sends a query to the database, retrieves the necessary data, and then uses this data to generate the response that will be sent back to your browser.

## Conclusion
Finally, the response generated by the application server is sent back through the web server, load balancer, and network to your browser. Your browser receives the response, renders the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, and displays the webpage you requested.

This entire process happens in a matter of seconds, thanks to the seamless cooperation of various technologies and protocols. Understanding this journey can give you a greater appreciation for the complexity and efficiency of the web.
